# Sense 22

We don't have just five senses. They are around 21. And Sense gives you the 22nd sense for security.

## Problem:

In a modern server side application, we are using a lot of different 3rd party libraries. Most of them are either:

* Community Driven Open source projects, maintained primarily by a handful of engineers or less 
* Geniusware projects that are created and maintained by a single person

And it is quite common that, a library that you chose for your project can have security issues. Also, it is possible that
a well known library can get hacked and a "hijacked" version can lead to back doors.

## Solution:

Sense is designed for Linux only and it watches for all the network activity. It can be in both directions:

* Requests made outside
* Listening sockets

You can silence certain applications or ports (like your application port) or certain IP/IP Ranges for your known scenario. And sense22 lets you know anything that happens out of ordinary.

Sense22 is not a firewall. It will not block any network. It is a reporting mechanism.

## Possible Scenarios

### The leaker:

You have a microservice architecture plus external services you depend on. Your application will be making external calls to known IP Ranges. And all of a sudden, it starts to make a call to an unknown destination.
Now, you might have different possiblities:

1. Your external dependency has changed its IP Range. And DNS is now resolving to another IP Address. This is actually a security concern that you might want to look into. It is quite common to have man-in-the-middle attacks for well known 3rd party services or it is also possible that the DNS is spoofed. Now your service is trying to login to an addresss that is actually designed to store your credentials.

2. Your 3rd party library is hi-jacked and it's sending your environment variables or configurations to a 3rd party server.

3. Your base docker image is insecure/contains a malware and it's trying to make external calls to send your secrets.

### The Trojan Horse

I don't know if you are old enough to remember the good old times of hacking. But I really enjoyed the 90s ERA of trojan horses like Netbus, Sub7, Schoolbus, Back Orifice etc. It was fun to write trojans as well. They tought me a lot of things about networking, kernel calls, keeping your code small etc. That was also the time I noticed that, Antivirus scanners are powerless for custom/tailor made trojans.  You need to take additional measures like Firewalls. But if the trojan is using a middle service over HTTP calls, it was again getting harder for Firewalls to notice the odd behavior. 

Nothing has really changed over time. There are still so many tailor made trojans especially targeting the 3rd party libraries or common system tools or applications used by the servers. 
Also, some pooryl coded software can cause Remote Code Executions (like the log4j incident).

Sense22 will report you all unusual network behavior. And it will not just listen your application but it will eventually listen for all Kernel network events.

## Personal Use

Sense22 is also suitable for personal use. There is a QT GUI App that shows you the logs generated by Sense22 and you can just make sure your linux is working as expected.
